## Welcome to ReciPlenty - a place where all the best food ideas come to mingle...
/////////////////////

This app is meant to be a handy way of tracking recipes that a given user might like - whether they're original, or "cloned down" from an API. Allow me to explain. In the component tree, after the App component, the main component is the NavBar, which lives at the top of each page the user can visit. (All other components are accessed via routing).
Through this NavBar, the user can access the "Write Your Own" feature, where they are able to write out the necessary Ingredients, Instructions and Title for their recipe, as well as add a picture if they'd like, and a radio button to toggle whether they have already made that recipe or not. Once the recipe is "Saved" it is added to the backend database where it is associated with their user id (and, only accessible on the frontend via their user id), and then the user is routed to the display page for that new recipe. (Clicking on the "My Recipes" button loads a list with all of the users Saved Recipe titles and images, as well as that same toggle button; each list item acts as a link to the Display page for that recipe).
Similarly, the user can search for recipes through the text field on the NavBar; submitting the text field (through the 'Enter' key or the associated button) will return five results at a time. Clicking on a result will load that recipe onto a display page, where the user has the ability to save that recipe - if they do opt to save it the recipe is saved to their User's backend and they are routed to the display page for the recipe.
 
This is what I personally consider the defining feature of my app: once the recipes are saved to the User's account, they are treated the same from that point forward. They are editable, including changing the picture, any text or title data, and the toggle button. As a side note, the toggle button is the only feature that is "editable" from the display page; every toggle triggers its own post-fetch to the backend to update the recipe's "cooked_by_user?" status.

While there is a backend, boolean attribute to track which recipes are "user_original"s, it is currently set on the backend, and not accessible by users on the frontend at this time. As a future buildout of this app, I would like to give the users more interactivity with their list of recipes on the frontend, including tracking which are originals and which aren't, which ones they've cooked and haven't, and a search feature. If I were to attempt to add recipe-specific filters (ie, plant_based?), I would need to add additional attributes to both ends, which is a buildout I haven't considered yet.
One other buildout I have considered, but have not yet begun, would be something along the lines of a "Recipe Generator" - ie, letting the user click through different ingredient options they could include (garlic + mushrooms + steak), and what a possible recipe could look like. One reason for this is that with Javascript and Ruby as the only programming languages I know, my concern is that every recipe would result in a variation on the same theme; something like 'add ingredients to pan and stir-fry.' A suggestion I have been given would be to delve into the world of Machine Learning via an Introduction to Python; something I am eager to do but have not yet begun.

On the note of backend/model validations: Every recipe must have a distinct title (ie cannot be blank, nor a duplicate), and every user must have a distinct name. On the note of authorization: password encryption and validations is handled by the Ruby gem 'bcrypt'. A user does not need to log in to access the home screen or the Recipe Editor - but they would be unable to save the recipe they have written, nor can they use the API, without logging in. Logically, if they are not logged in they also cannot view any "My Recipes". Whether or not a user is logged in, they have full access to the home page where (in addition to the login screen) they also have access to three buttons, each with the promise of displaying data: one loads a "random food fact," one loads a "link to a random food blog," and the third loads a "random food & beer pairing." The first two buttons, as well as the searchable api of recipes, are powered with data from the Spoonacular API; the pairing is fetched from the "Punk API" which was created as a database for the BrewDog Brewery (ie, although their brand is not mentioned, all of the beer titles in the pairings are of BrewDog brands), and each button is decorated with photos from the "Foodish" API. All three APIs are credited on the homepage, with links to their respective documentation.

This is the app as it stands. If you're reading this - please do access the deployed version [on Heroku](http://reciplenty.herokuapp.com) and feel free to make an account, add & track your progress or modifications to any recipes you would like, and please do reach out to me with any bugs or issues you encounter! I would love to hear some feedback beyond my own scope of experience.
Thank you in advance!
Max